Introduction to Version Control:
.

What is Git?
Git is a distributed version control system which means every developer working on a project with git as  complete copy of a project
history on their local system

Key Features:
• Snapshot
• Branches
• Local & remote repositories

##Basic Git Commands: git init, git add, git commit, git status.

What is a Repostiory?
where you can store your code , your files amd each files revision history. These are of two types:

Local: These repositories are stored on someone's own system or own workspace where one can make or commit their own changes.
Remote: These repositories are stored on the Server directly.



What are Branches?
Suppose a developer is working on a project, the complete process or Life Cycle to make a project is called as a Master Branch. In this, each developer creates a seperate branch for themselves 
which only involves their part of role in the project which makes it independent from someone else's work. This is called as Branching.
Branch and Checkout are the two commands used to create a branch and switch between the branches in Git.

What is Push?
Git Push is a Git command which is used to Push the code present in your local Repository to the Remote Repository or the main branch where other's can access it.
Before doing the push command we need to make sure that our changes are commited.
Steps: Add -> Commit -> Push

What is Pull Request?
It is a request made to merge your code to the main branmch where the developer can discuss, review and enhance their project or their code.

What is Merge Request?
It is similar to the Pull Request.
Steps: Push -> Merge(Master/Main) -> Clear description of the changes made.

What is Commit?
Saving or Taking a snapshot of the progress in the project after some changes are made by also recording the context of the changes.
Steps: Git add(to add then changes) -> Git commit


Using Git for Project Management:

•  Branch Management
•  Merging and Conflicts
•  Version Tracking (git log, git diff, git blame)


What is GitHub?
GitHub is a web-based interface that uses Git, the open source version control software that lets multiple people make separate changes to web pages at the same time.
Key Features:
  •  Pull Request
  •  Forks  (copy and modify)
  •  Social Networking features for developers

What is GitLab?
GitLab is a web-based Git repository that provides free open and private repositories, issue-following capabilities, and wikis.
Key Features:
  •  Issue Tracking
  •  CI/CD Pipelines
  •  Merge requests
